We all want Red Hat curriculum to be informative, useful, and exciting
for our students. For that to work, it has to be clear and concise,
and it needs to inspire confidence.

Content Services is here to help. Specifically, we've come up with a
Top 5 list of writing tips to make your job easier and more efficient.


1. Write bad

You're smart. Really smart. You shouldn't have to think about boring
stuff like proper English when you're writing code and config files.

So don't.

When you're writing a chapter, write naturally. Don't worry about the
details yet.

When you're finished, stop. Don't hit 'send' yet.

Take a few hours to proofread what you've just written. This is time
to think about how sentences can be rewritten, to check spelling, to
fix punctuation.

It's a two-stage process: the First Draft, and the Editor Draft. If
you do this, then the editors are very likely to send back a Final
Draft that you can merge without making any further changes.

2. Write less

While clarity in writing documentation is of the utmost importance,
especially when the documentation is of a technical inclination (or is
otherwise to be used for technical training or referencing), it is in
fact of perhaps greater importance that a writer endeavour to keep
their narrative production brief and relatively simple, for the sake
of their audience (such as it is).

Or, said another way: Less is more.

The less you write, the easier it is for your readers to comprehend
what you're saying. If a reader wants more, they can reread your short
sentences over and over again.


3. Spell check

You shouldn't have to think about spelling while writing your first
draft, so don't.

Then again, you also shouldn't have to think about spelling during
your editor draft, either. That's what computers are for.

Use spell check.

4. Cheat

Cheatsheets are great ways to get things right with the least possible
amount of effort. Especially during your first draft, the last thing
you want to do is bring evrything to a grinding, uninspired halt
because you can't remember whether it's "plugin" or "plug-in" (it's
"plug-in").

So keep some cheatsheets close at hand. You can write down common
mistakes in a notebook on your desk, and bookmark important, quick and
easy-to-use sites like titlecase.com or the Product List
(http://red.ht/productnames)

If something is distracting or it slows you down, then it's not a
cheatsheet. Save it as a resource for the editor draft.

5. Ask

When in doubt, or if you're just bored: ask the tech editors.
